if you visited James aspies YouTube
channel you will have noticed something
quite peculiar the channel is now called
James ass B and for many years the name
of that YouTube channel was James and
Carly what began as James aspies one-man
mission to rid the world of factory
farming and cruelty to animals and fur
wearing hoe [ __ ] became a man and his
woman taking first-class airplane
tickets around the world on permanent
vacation windsurfing jet skiing and
above all else
playing the ukulele while repeating over
and over again the same simple message
about Venus but it seems that the dream
team became a nightmare and the James
and Carly have in fact broken up and if
not today then like within the last 48
or 72 hours quite quite recently if you
go over to their Instagram pages where
there were once little red heart emojis
indicating that they were in love with
one another providing a link from one
channel of the other the heart emojis
are gone the links are gone there are
changes afoot I noticed that the
description for James aspies channel he
hasn't gotten around to changing yet I
also haven't changed the description for
my channel like five years it's annoying
to click through it still refers to them
as we there but I'm guessing I'm
guessing soon enough these traces of the
partnership between James and Carly will
soon disappear there was a time when I
was doing humanitarian work in Thailand
Laos Cambodia I was even applying for
work in Myanmar and when I say doing
humanitarian work if you're not a
wealthy person that means that you spend
much more of your time worrying about
where your next gig is gonna come from
applying for your next gig looking for
the opportunity to do
and work rather than actually doing it
if you're a wealthy person you can set
up your own foundation you can be your
own employee or what have you
lots of options but I was trying to do
humanitarian work while having no money
of my own which is very precarious sort
of business and I met a woman much
younger than myself and she had never
gone to university she basically went
straight out of high school into running
her own humanitarian foundation she's an
amazing accomplishment and she was not
born wealthy now I forget after high
school I think she did just a one-year
college program but in English this is
slippery not University but she did high
school plus I think just one year and at
some kind of technical school this was
important to her story her father was a
lowly factory worker and she told me in
some detail that her family was if not
poor struggling to just barely be a part
of the middle class but when she
finished school she stayed in touch with
all of her classmates and many of her
friends from high school were wealthy
people with wealthy families and she put
on a series of inspirational
presentations with a slideshow
describing what she wanted to do in
Cambodia how much it would cost what the
outcomes were and she gathered the
donation from this social network in the
old-fashioned sense of the social
network she put the money together she
put the perspectives together she did
all the paperwork she formally
incorporated a charity in her home town
and then set up the foundation in
Cambodia and opened a bank account for
it and she was in business part of the
magic of this is if you can get just
five thousand dollars in donations that
would disappear in New York City or Los
Angeles but five thousand dollars could
last a long long time in Cambodia you
get a lot of work done and you get a lot
of good done with feathers notice she
was interesting character and I'm really
leaving out some of the most amusing
anecdotes connected to this this woman
who was briefly a character in my life
[Music]
some threats made with a machete that
broke out and I'll always remember so
you know I could speak Thai and lotion
at that time more more lotion than Thai
but I remember going to the going to the
police station to give an account of
what had happened involving this machete
and so on and they asked what why why
were these men fighting what was the
origin of the conflict or something and
I managed to say in Thai there's a young
woman who lived upstairs her skin was
whiter than snow and the policemen all
sitting around they hope they all smiled
hell yeah that was well put yeah that
was a well put two coats that had a
literary touch in yours David nobody got
killed I remembered her as being this
person who managed to pull vault her
career going like straight from high
school to being the administrator of her
own hey you know it had a website it
looked legit it had a budget she went to
be the administrator of her own NGO
non-government organization of Chery
every single piece of paperwork the bank
account to receive the donations to do
all the things that charity hit every
single bit of paperwork was co-signed by
her and her boyfriend all these men were
fighting over her the somewhat surreal
situation which I met her but she wasn't
in fact signal nor was she pretending to
be single I guess they fancy themselves
having a chance there anyway and when
she and her boyfriend broke up as
boyfriends and girlfriends so often do
everything fell apart and nobody could
put the pieces back together again
even legally there was no way to carry
on but as you can imagine emotionally
and practically there's no way to carry
on I'm sure it was crushing as a setback
when you have someone who's a co-founder
of an organization with that like that
from day one and then you decide to dump
them in many ways you're forced to start
a new chapter look I've known many
endeavors
this kind that fell apart in just the
same way I knew a husband-and-wife
couple who started a nonfiction and
philosophical publishing firm book
publishing and when I met the guy who I
guess is the CEO he was insisting oh no
no it's fine we're divorced but we're
still coworkers we're doing we're
managing there everything's gonna be
okay and just like three weeks later
they gave up they don't forget it we
can't work I was talking to was I was
interested in publishing publishing
won't work with them mmm it's dangerous
it's dangerous to mix business with
pleasure
it's dangerous to mix humanitarian
passions with you know the type of
passions that bind people together on
that one-to-one basis and that's soon
enough often enough tear them apart I
can remember a conversation with my
girlfriend and it should be said that
was several breakups ago Melissa and I
have broke it up back together self that
I can remember conversation that girl
from where I said no if I formally
incorporated a vegan organization and
activist organization below no you would
not be you would not be involved you'd
be involved in the sense that we eat
breakfast together
probably dinner together of it you're
gonna hear about what's going on my life
but no you can't you can't do this
and most of us a little bit chopped I'm
not not horrified but she was just
surprised hear me say that and I talked
it through this is my standard line of
reasoning for many people in many types
of problems do that thing that sympathy
entails imagine if your positions were
reversed imagine if it was someone else
imagine if you were the employee in that
business and you have two bosses and
neither one ever really accepts the
others in charge and sums they have a
fight as long as they're getting along
or sometimes they break up imagine how
difficult would be for the other people
whether the donors the employees the
volunteers for all the other people
whose work you're bringing together in
that organization if the two people at
the top are in love with each other and
guys that's just saying love that's not
even gonna get to the possibility that
love turns to hate rid you know there
are a lot of foreseeable problems with
the guy like James
he is a long long history of drug
addiction and drug abuse I'm not making
that up he's talking about that honestly
and openly omits a large part of his act
is talk about a veganism and sobriety
changed his life for the better well
when you get into bed with a guy like
that if you try to run a charitable
foundation with a cog that and so on
let's just say there are advantages and
disadvantages it's not my place to
speculate on why James ASPI has broken
up with Carly or vice-versa why she's
broken up with him but it is my place to
speculate on what it means for us sure
even what it means for the future the
vegan movement and you know these kinds
of trite truisms about separating
business and pleasure these kinds of you
know commonly said phrases in our
culture it's kind of they're repeated so
often that they disappear into the
background noise of our civilization and
seem banal but then you have an example
like this that brings them suddenly into
sharp focus as recently as March 29th
James asked me and Carly were
photographing themselves together saying
they were completely in love and now
separate YouTube channels separate
Instagram accounts separate careers let
me just say I don't particularly believe
that the Pope in Rome lives in celibacy
I don't particularly that any of the
Pope's who've ever led the Catholic
faith live in celibacy however however
you can imagine just how much more
unstable and unpredictable the Catholic
Church might be if it were ruled not
even by man and wife but jointly by one
male and one female who are dating
in love going through the various
positions
of a romantic partnership you can
imagine how much more unstable the
Catholic Church would be coca-cola
corporation would be the Buddhist faith
would be any big organization you can
imagine how much more stable would be if
it were led by a romantic couple dating
deeply in love sure as they go through
the vicissitudes of romance that may be
extremely tempestuous even if it
succeeds and let's face it guys in the
vast majority of cases romances and in
failure
[Music]